---
title: "Taskwarrior - Philosophy"
---

### Taskwarrior Philosophy

Taskwarrior is developed using a philosophy that explains a lot about why
certain decisions have been made, and will continue to be made. All Taskwarrior
family projects follow this same philosophy.

[]{#open}

#### Openness

The [source code](https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/taskwarrior),
[plans](/docs/design/plans.html), [designs](/docs/design),
[bugs](https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/taskwarrior/issues),
[testing](https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/taskwarrior/actions),
[docs](/docs), and [website](https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/tw.org) are
all free and open source. Your data is kept as plain text, and never held
hostage by a proprietary format. You are welcome to contribute and identify
improvements in all aspects of the project. There is no hidden agenda.

The goals of the project are to support all workflows at minimal friction and
minimal complexity, while improving list management.

[]{#friction}

#### Low Friction

A tool that allows you to capture tasks needs to be low-friction. This means
that there should be no login authentication, lengthy launch delay, or
interactivity getting in the way of simply capturing information. It doesn\'t
get much easier than this:

    $ task add '...'

Any tool that has friction will discourage its own use.

[]{#penalty}

#### No Penalty

There should be no penalty for features that you don\'t use. As an example,
Taskwarrior supports recurrence and dependencies, but if you don\'t use those
features, there is no performance penalty or cost to that.

But that also means the features are there if you need them. If you decide to
start using priorities, then you can, and having tasks where some have
priorities and some don\'t is fine.

[]{#agnostic}

#### Methodology Agnostic

Productivity methodologies promote simple, habit-forming, repeatable processes
and workflow, combined with some discipline to give you an effective approach to
getting through your work. They tend to focus on maintaining a high quality
list, doing quickly that which can be done quickly, distinguishing between the
important and the unimportant, pacing yourself and not forgetting things.

While methodologies are important, Taskwarrior doesn\'t impose or prefer any
methodology, and instead acknowledges that everyone works differently, placing
different emphasis on things like priorities, due dates, dependence and so on.

You may start with a known methodology, but find that there will be parts that
work well and not so well for you, and you will likely evolve your own unique
methodology. This means Taskwarrior supports all of the above in some form, as
you develop your own working methodology.

[]{#toolkit}

#### Toolkit

Supporting all methodologies and workflows means there are a lot of features,
but you are not expected to use or even be aware of them all. Think of
Taskwarrior as a toolkit that lets you follow any methodology you choose, and
any given methodology will only use a small subset of the features.

Your kitchen has many tools and gadgets, but you likely only use a fraction of
them. They exist so that you have options.

[]{#ext}

#### Extension Friendly

Import/export using industry-standard JSON allows you to move data into and out
of Taskwarrior, so you can provide a front end, or higher-order feature:

    $ task 1 export
    [
    {"description":"Send Alice a birthday card","due":"20161108T000000Z", ...}
    ]

Hook scripts allow you to modify tasks on entry and on modification, or deny
changes to enforce policies.

    $ task add Paint the door
    Warning: Task does not have an assigned project

Helper commands allow you to extract metadata:

    $ task project:Home _ids
    36
    77
    89
    122
    123

A full DOM allows you to drill down to a single datum:

    $ task _get 123.entry.year
    2016

    $ task _get rc.dateformat
    Y-M-D

[]{#community}

#### Community

Taskwarrior is greatly enhanced by the community that surrounds and supports it.
You\'ll find help, support, extensions, and more online.

Talk to us. Join the community, help others, help yourself, and advance the
project. We welcome all of you into our community.

Here is our [Code of Conduct](/conduct.html).

[]{#focus}

#### Focus

Taskwarrior carefully limits the features it supports, in order to focus on
doing one thing well. It does not offer reminders and time tracking, because
there are other projects dedicated to implementing those features well.

If a feature improves the way we manage task lists, then it belongs in
Taskwarrior, otherwise it belongs in some other software.
