---
title: "Taskwarrior - Priority"
---

### Priority

Taskwarrior has supported the notion of task priority since the beginning.
Priority was defined to have four allowable values, `H`, `M` and `L`, with the
additional option of having no priority at all. The values represent High,
Medium, Low and No priority. The `L` value is considered a higher priority than
no priority. Priority has been used to sort tasks in most built-in reports.

Beginning with Taskwarrior 2.4.3, priority is no longer a core attribute, and is
replaced with an equivalent [User Defined Attribute](/docs/udas.html). This
offers several advantages, and users may now configure priority and attributes
that affect urgency to match their needs more closely.

This change should go unnoticed, but there are some differences. This document
describes how you may further customize priority to match *your* notion of what
priority means.

[]{#default}

#### Default Configuration

Here is the new default configuration for the UDA priority, which closely
matches the old core attribute priority.

    color.uda.priority.H=color255
    color.uda.priority.L=color245
    color.uda.priority.M=color250

    uda.priority.label=Priority
    uda.priority.type=string
    uda.priority.values=H,M,L,

    urgency.uda.priority.H.coefficient=6.0
    urgency.uda.priority.L.coefficient=1.8
    urgency.uda.priority.M.coefficient=3.9

There are several points to note, the first of which is that the color rules are
now UDA color rules. The themes that are distributed with Taskwarrior have all
been updated to accomodate this change, but you may have local overrides that
have not yet been modified.

The `uda.priority.values` setting specifies the possible values, which are `H`,
`M`, `L`, and no priority. Notice the comma at the end with no value after it -
that is how you specify that an empty value is allowed.

[]{#custom}

#### Custom Configuration

If you believe that a priority level of `L` should be the lowest value, lower
even than no value, you can do this:

    $ task config -- uda.priority.values  H,M,,L

Those two commas indicate that the blank value lies between `M` and `L`.

If you would like priorities that represent severity, then you can do something
like this:

    $ task config -- uda.priority.values Critical,Important,

There is no practical limit on what values, or how many values you use. This
example suggests you might want to rename `priority` to be `severity` instead.

[]{#warning}

#### Warning

If you sync tasks between different clients, you will need to configure those
clients in the same way, otherwise you\'ll find that Taskwarrior will enforce
the default configuration.
