---
title: "Taskwarrior - Searching"
---

### Searching

Searching for keywords and patterns in tasks is straightforward, and uses the
`/pattern/` syntax. First we create some sample tasks, then we\'ll search them.

    $ task add foo
    $ task add bar
    $ task add baz

In order to locate that first task, by the keyword `foo` we do this:

    $ task /foo/ list

    ID Age   D Description Urg
    -- ----- - ----------- ----
     1 1min    foo            0

The `/` characters delimit the search term, indicating what Taskwarrior should
do. Because task annotations are also searchable text, we can be sure that any
annotations containing the pattern `/foo/` will also be found. Let\'s add a task
with such an annotation:

    $ task 3 annotate footwear
    $ task /foo/ long

    ID Created    Mod   Recur Description
    -- ---------- ----- ----- ---------------------
     3 2014-09-28 2min        baz
                                2014-09-28 footwear
     1 2014-09-28 2min       foo

Here the `long` report is used so we can see the full annotation text. Notice
that the `foo` in the description of task 1, as well as the `footwear` in the
annotation of task 3 were both found.

[]{#regexes}

#### Regular Expressions

Beginning in version [2.4.0]{.label .label-success} all search terms are by
default [regular expressions](/docs/terminology.html#regex). This means we could
have searched using this pattern, which means an `f` followed by two `o`
characters:

    $ task /fo{2}/ long

    ID Created    Mod   Recur Description
    -- ---------- ----- ----- ---------------------
     3 2014-09-28 3min        baz
                                2014-09-28 footwear
     1 2014-09-28 3min       foo

In older versions, you would need to explicitly enable regex support like this:

    $ task rc.regex:on /fo{2}/ long

    ID Created    Mod   Recur Description
    -- ---------- ----- ----- ---------------------
     3 2014-09-28 3min        baz
                                2014-09-28 footwear
     1 2014-09-28 3min       foo

Or you could put the setting in your `.taskrc` file. You can also turn off
regular expression support:

    $ task rc.regex:off /fo{2}/ long

    No matches.

This fails because the search term `/fo{2}/` is this time considered just text,
not a regular expression and this term does not appear in any task.

[]{#shell}

#### Shell

If your search term contains one or more spaces, then your
[shell](/docs/terminology.html#shell) is going to break the search pattern into
two arguments, and Taskwarrior will be confused. Solve this by either quoting or
escaping like these examples:

    $ task '/foo bar/' list
    $ task /foo\ bar/ list

This guarantees that Taskwarrior sees one argument, `/foo bar/` instead of two,
`/foo`, `bar/`.

[]{#operators}

#### Operators

The search pattern syntax of `/pattern/` is there as a convenience, but there
are more powerful low-level operators, such that the above pattern is equivalent
to:

    $ task description~foo list

Here the `~` match operator works much like that in Bash. To invert that, to
search for descriptions that *do not* contain the pattern, use the no-match
operator:

    $ task 'desc!~foo' list

Here you see the `!~` no-match operator, an abbreviated `desc` attribute name,
and quoting, because Bash will interpret the `!` character in its own way.
