---
title: "Taskwarrior - Command Line Syntax"
---

### Command Line Syntax

Taskwarrior has a flexible command line syntax, but it may not be clear at first
what the underlying structure means. Here is the general form of the syntax:

![](/docs/images/syntax.png){.img-responsive}

There are four parts to the syntax (`filter`, `command`, `modifications`, and
`miscellaneous`), and each part is optional.

[]{#command}

### Command

Each time you run Taskwarrior, you are issuing a `command` either explicitly, or
implicitly with the default command (the `default.command` configuration
setting). The command you specify determines how the command line is understood
by Taskwarrior. Here are some examples of that:

![](/docs/images/syntaxes.png){.img-responsive}

The first example, `task list` is a report with no filter, and the second,
`task +home list` is with a filter. The third, `task 12 modify project:Garden`
has both a filter and modifications. The last example, `task show editor` has a
miscellaneous argument.

Taskwarrior looks for the first argument on the command line that looks like an
exact command name, and failing that, looks for an abbreviated command name. It
is better to use the full name of a command to avoid ambiguity.

It is the position of the `command` argument, and the type of command that
determines how the arguments are understood.

[]{#filter}

### Filter

A filter is a means of addressing a subset of tasks. Because filters are
optional, the simplest case is no filter. A command with no filter addresses all
tasks.

Generally filter arguments appear before the command, so any arguments to the
left of the command are considered filter arguments.

There is a special case, in which a command that does not support modifications
or miscellaneous arguments, expects only filter arguments, and so they can
appear before or after the command, without confusing Taskwarrior:

![](/docs/images/filter.png){.img-responsive}

[]{#mods}

### Modifications

If a command accepts modifications, they generally appear after the command.
Most commands that accept modifications also accept filters, and so the filter
arguments appear before the command, while the modifications appear after. Here
is an example:

![](/docs/images/modification.png){.img-responsive}

This command specifies a compound filter, consisting of more than one term.
These terms are logically combined with an `and` operator by default, unless
otherwise specified. In this case, tasks that have both the `home` tag, and a
`status` value of `pending` are to be modified.

The modifications, appearing after the command, set the `priority` to `H`igh,
and the `due` date to the end of the month (`eom`).

Because the filter is evaluated at runtime, we don\'t know how many tasks will
be modified. It could be none, one, many or all of the tasks. It could be
determined with:

    task +home status:pending count

The user writing this command would have an idea of how many tasks this will
affect, but this is just an example, with no contextual data shown.

[]{#misc}

### Miscellaneous

Some commands accept neither a filter, nor modifications, but do accept
miscellaneous arguments. An example is the `show` command, that queries
configuration settings, and does not accept a filter:

![](/docs/images/miscellaneous.png){.img-responsive}

This is another special case, in which the command only accepts miscellaneous
arguments, and so they can appear before or after the command.

[]{#override}

### Overrides

Overrides are temporary values for configuration settings, and can be specified
anywhere on the command line, because they are not considered to be either
filter, modification or miscellaneous. In fact, the command itself doesn\'t see
the overrides, instead they are handled before the command runs.

![](/docs/images/override.png){.img-responsive}

There can be any number of overrides on the command line, and they have no
effect on the syntax.
