---
title: "Taskwarrior - Upgrading Taskserver"
---

### Upgrading Taskserver

Upgrading to Taskserver [1.1.0]{.label .label-success} requires some
configuration changes. The required changes are mostly concerned with
improvements to security and encryption. Updating the software itself is
straightforward.

[]{#software}

#### Upgrade the Software

This is simply a matter of shutting down the server, installing the new
software, modifying the configuration as discussed below, and restarting the
server. Before doing this, please read the issues below, so that you will be
prepared, and more secure.

[]{#pki}

#### PKI

If you used self-signed certificates, and the scripts provided with Taskserver
1.0.0, then you will want to regenerate all your CA, CRL, server, client and
user certificates using the updated scripts.

The scripts now properly use the `CN` field, and no longer use `SAN`s. This is
important for hostname verification, and required for `strict` validation.

Please note also that the PKI scripts provided use a certificate expiration of
365 days. This means no certificate is valid after a year. If you used the
default scripts when you installed Taskserver 1.0.0, you may have already
discovered this.

It is generally a good idea to expire and renew certificates. Long-term
certificates may need to be revoked using the CRL, so short-term certificates
provide a dead-man\'s switch approach.

[]{#allowdeny}

#### Allow/Deny

The `client.allow` and `client.deny` configuration settings should be removed,
as this feature has been removed from the server. As it is easy to spoof a valid
client, this technique offered no security.

[]{#trust}

#### Trust

The new `trust` configuration setting determines how client certificates are
validated. Values maybe either `allow all` or `strict`. The value `allow all`
performs no client certificate validation. This is not recommended. The value
`strict` causes the client certificate to be validated against a CA.

Note that using the `strict` value may require that your server certificates be
replaced. This depends on the data used to create your original certificates.
Taskserver PKI scripts now create certificates with a proper CN value.

[]{#gnutls}

#### GnuTLS

Please bear in mind that [GnuTLS](https://gnutls.org/) is a security product,
and it is important that you use the most recent version available. Please
upgrade GnuTLS before building Taskwarrior and Taskserver.

We have received many reports of problems with older GnuTLS releases,
specifically version 2.12.20 and earlier cannot complete handshake with a CRL.

Versions prior to 3.2 also suffer from significant memory leaks, which will take
down your Taskserver over time.

In addition to benefiting from bug fixes and leak fixes, newer GnuTLS versions
include new and more secure default ciphers and algorithms. Security is
important.
:::
